
**Date** : 2025-07-08
**Link** :   https://tryhackme.com/room/diamondmodelrmuwwg42
**Description** : Learn about the four core features of the Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis: adversary, infrastructure, capability, and victim.

## Introduction

**The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis**

The Diamond Model is composed of four core features: adversary, infrastructure, capability, and victim, and establishes the fundamental atomic element of any intrusion activity.
Two additional components or axes of the Diamond Model - Social, Political and Technology
The Diamond Model can also help explain to other people who are non-technical about what happened during an event or any valuable information on the malicious threat actor.

## Adversary

An adversary is the attacker.
**According to the creators of the Diamond Model,  an adversary is an actor or organization responsible for utilizing a capability against the victim to achieve their intent**

**Adversary Operator** is the “hacker” or person(s) conducting the intrusion activity.
**Adversary Customer** is the entity that stands to benefit from the activity conducted in the intrusion

## Victim

**Victim** : Target of the adversary.

**Victim Personae** are the people and organizations being targeted and whose assets are being attacked and exploited

**Victim Assets** are the attack surface and include the set of systems, networks, email addresses, hosts, IP addresses, social networking accounts, etc., to which the adversary will direct their capabilities.

## Capability

**Capability** – is also known as the skill, tools, and techniques used by the adversary in the event

**Capability Capacity** is all of the vulnerabilities and exposures that the individual capability can use.
An **Adversary Arsenal** is a set of capabilities that belong to an adversary


## Infrastructure

The infrastructure can also be IP addresses, domain names, email addresses, or even a malicious USB device found in the street that is being plugged into a workstation.
**Type 1 Infrastructure** is the infrastructure controlled or owned by the adversary.
**Type 2 Infrastructure** is the infrastructure controlled by an intermediary (the infrastructure that a victim will see as the adversary.)
**Service Providers** are organizations that provide services considered critical for the adversary availability of Type 1 and Type 2 Infrastructures, for example, Internet Service Providers, domain registrars, and webmail providers.*

## Event Meta Features

Six possible meta-features can be added to the Diamond Model.

- Timestamp - is the date and time of the event.
-  Phase - Phase of an attack
- Result 
- Direction
- Methodology
- Resources


## Social-Political Component

The **social-political** component describes the needs and intent of the adversary, for example, financial gain, gaining acceptance in the hacker community, hacktivism, or espionage.

## Technology Component

**Technology** – the technology meta-feature or component highlights the relationship between the core features: capability and infrastructure.

