**Date** : 2025-07-10
**Link** :   https://tryhackme.com/room/mitre
**Description** : This room will discuss the various resources MITRE has made available for the cybersecurity community.

## Introduction to MITRE

- ATT&CK _®_  ( A dversarial  T actics,  T echniques,  and   C ommon  K nowledge) Framework
- CAR ( C yber  A nalytics  R epository) Knowledge Base
- ENGAGE  (sorry, not a fancy acronym)
- D3FEND ( D etection,  D enial, and  D isruption  F ramework  E mpowering  N etwork  D efense)
- AEP ( A TT&CK  E mulation  P lans)


## Basic Terminology

**APT**   is an acronym for  **Advanced Persistent Threat**

TTP is an acronym for  Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures,  but what does each of these terms mean?

- The  Tactic  is the adversary's goal or objective.
- The  Technique  is how the adversary achieves the goal or objective.
- The  Procedure  is how the technique is executed.

## ATT&CK® Frameworks

MITRE ATT&CK® is a globally-accessible knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques based on real-world observations.
FMX ( Fort Meade Experiment ).
[Website](https://attack.mitre.org/)


## Car Knowledge Base

**Cyber Analytics Repository** (CAR)
_CAR defines a data model that is leveraged in its pseudocode representations but also includes implementations directly targeted at specific tools (e.g., Splunk, EQL) in its analytics. With respect to coverage, CAR is focused on providing a set of validated and well-explained analytics, in particular with regards to their operating theory and rationale._ 

## MITRE Engage

**MITRE Engage  is a framework for planning and discussing adversary engagement operations that empowers you to engage your adversaries and achieve your cybersecurity goals.**
Considered an Adversary Engagement approach. This is accomplished by the implementation of  Cyber Denial  and  Cyber Deception .
The Engage website provides a  [starter kit](https://engage.mitre.org/starter-kit/)  to get you 'started' with the Adversary Engagement Approach. The starter kit is a collection of whitepapers and PDFs explaining various checklists,  methodologies, and  processes  to get you started.
- Prepare  the set of operational actions that will lead to your desired outcome (input)
- Expose  adversaries when they trigger your deployed deception activities 
- Affect  adversaries by performing actions that will have a negative impact on their operations
- Elicit  information by observing the adversary and learn more about their modus operandi (TTPs)
- Understand  the outcomes of the operational actions (output)

Refer to the  [Engage Handbook](https://engage.mitre.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/EngageHandbook-v1.0.pdf)  to learn more.

## MITRE Defend

_A knowledge graph of cybersecurity countermeasures._

D3FEND  stands for  D etection,  D enial, and  D isruption  F ramework  E mpowering  N etwork  D efense.
https://d3fend.mitre.org/

## ATT&CK® Emulation Plans

If these tools provided to us by MITRE are not enough, under  [MITRE ENGENUITY](https://mitre-engenuity.org/) , we have  Adversary Emulation Library , and ATT&CK ®  Emulation Plans .
MITRE formed an organization named The  [Center of Threat-Informed Defense](https://mitre-engenuity.org/cybersecurity/center-for-threat-informed-defense/)  ( CTID ). This organization consists of various companies and vendors from around the globe. Their objective is to conduct research on cyber threats and their TTPs and share this research to improve cyber defense for all.
ome of the companies and vendors who are participants of CTID:

- AttackIQ (founder)
- Verizon
- Microsoft (founder)
- Red Canary (founder)
- Splunk

## ATT&CK® and Threat Intelligence 

**Threat Intelligence (TI)**  or **Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI)** is the information, or TTPs, attributed to the adversary. By using threat intelligence, as defenders, we can make better decisions regarding the defensive strategy. Large corporations might have an in-house team whose primary objective is to gather threat intelligence for other teams within the organization, aside from using threat intel already readily available. Some of this threat intel can be open source or through a subscription with a vendor, such as [**CrowdStrike**](https://www.crowdstrike.com) . In contrast, many defenders wear multiple hats (roles) within some organizations, and they need to take time from their other tasks to focus on threat intelligence. To cater to the latter, we'll work on a scenario of using ATT&CK® for threat intelligence. The goal of threat intelligence is to make the information actionable.




